<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
"../../dtd/technicalContent/dtd/concept.dtd">

<concept id="sec.services.authentication" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Authentication Services</title>
<shortdesc></shortdesc>

<!-- <prolog> -->
<!--   <metadata> -->
<!--     <keywords> -->
<!-- 	<indexterm></indexterm> -->
<!--     </keywords> -->
<!--   </metadata> -->
<!-- </prolog> -->

<conbody>
  <p>
    Authentication is the process of verifying the identity of a
    participant in a transaction, such as the sender of a request
    message. OCF authentication is based on cryptographic
    credentials.
  </p>

  <p>
    There are two basic types of cryptography used for credential
    authentication, symmetric and asymmetric.
  </p>

  <p>
    Symmetric cryptography uses the same (secret) cryptographic key
    for both encryption and decryption.  The key is often called a
    "Pre-Shared Key" (PSK), since both parties to the transaction must
    be provisioned with it.
  </p>

  <p>
    Asymmetric cryptography uses a pair of keys, one a private
    (secret) key and the other a public key.  The private key is never
    shared. Senders use their private key to "sign" their messages,
    and receivers use the public key of the sender to verify the
    signature.  Asymmetric cryptography is often referred to as
    "Public-Key Cryptography".
  </p>

  <p>
    Closely related to asymmetric cryptography is the use of
    "certificate authorities" to certify ownership of key pairs. Using
    a public key to verify the signature of a message ensures that the
    sender is in possession of the private key that signed the
    message; it does not, however, authenticate the <i>identity</i> of
    the sender. A certificate authority (CA) is an entity that issues
    digital certificates that certify ownership of a public key by
    the entity named in the certificate.
  </p>

  <p>
    OCF authentication services support the following credential types:
  </p>

  <ul>
    <li>Symmetric Pairwise Key (Pre-Shared Key or PSK)</li>
    <li>Symmetric Group Key</li>
    <li>Asymmetric Signing Key</li>
    <li>Asymmetric Signing Key with Certificates</li>
    <li>PIN or Password</li>
    <li>Assymetric Encryption Key</li>
  </ul>

  <p>
    OCF engines maintain a Credentials Database that stores
    credentials and associated device IDs. The database is accessible
    as a resource (/oic/sec/cred). Provisioning of the database is
    described in <xref keyref="sec.mgmt.provisioning"/>.
  </p>

  <p>
    When symmetric keys are used, OCF authentication services attach
    to outgoing messages the device id and credential (PSK) of the
    sending device, and, on the receiving end, extract the device ID
    and credential from the incoming message and look them up in the
    Credentials DB. If found, the messages is marked as authenticated
    and processing continues; otherwise, the message is rejected with
    an UNAUTHENTICATED response.
  </p>

  <p>
    When asymmetric credentials are used, OCF authentication services
    use the sender's private key to sign outgoing messages, and on the
    receiving end use the sender's public key to verify the signature. ... etc. ...
    <draft-comment>TODO: flesh this out.</draft-comment>
  </p>
</conbody>

<related-links>

  <link href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Authentication" format="html" scope="external">
    <linktext>Authentication (Wikipedia)</linktext>
  </link>

  <link href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_authority"
	format="html" scope="external">
    <linktext>Certificate Authority (Wikipedia)</linktext>
  </link>

  <link href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_key_certificate"
	format="html" scope="external">
    <linktext>Public-key Certificate (Wikipedia)</linktext>
  </link>

  <link href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symmetric-key_algorithm"
	format="html" scope="external">
    <linktext>Symmetric-key Algorithm (Wikipedia)</linktext>
  </link>

  <link href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public-key_cryptography"
	format="html" scope="external">
    <linktext>Public-key Cryptography</linktext>
  </link>

</related-links>

</concept>
